Hi guys, Korean Movie Recapped here. Before
we start, WARNING! Spoilers Ahead! Today,
I’m going to recap a 2016 Korean Thriller
movie called Pandora. An earthquake strikes
the small town where Jae lives and causes
explosions at the nearby nuclear power plant.
The situation quickly spirals out of
control, leading the entire nation to panic.
Jae and his friends grew up in a
slow town near a nuclear power plant.
He lives with his mother, sister-in-law, and
nephew. The town was promised a better future
by the construction of the nuclear plant as it
offers them jobs and stable living conditions.
But it has also taken away other
livelihoods such as tourism and fishery.
This makes people in his town don't have
other choices besides working at the plant.
He hates his job and desperately wants out,
but feels duty-bound to stay with his family.
One day, he tells his girlfriend, Yeon, that
he is planning to leave the town and go abroad.
This makes her angry at him as she doesn’t have
anyone else to rely on in the town besides him.
His mother also opposes his plan despite her
resenting the plant too. Jae's father and brother
were also workers at the nuclear plant, they both
died as a result of a working accident at the
plant. She sees Jae as an incapable and lazy man
because he lost his father's accident compensation
money when he opened a business with the money, so
she can’t let him go by himself. Feeling annoyed,
Jae continues working at the plant. During a
working shift, he decides to ditch the town
and disappears. But it's already too late,
a disaster is waiting for him at the plant.
Meanwhile in Seoul, a youthful and idealistic
President Kang reads a report by Park,
a chief engineer at Hanbyul nuclear plant, about
safety concerns and maintenance corners being cut
at Hanbyul. The report is given directly by his
wife because many officials are trying to bury the
report, including the prime minister and his team.
Knowing this, he summons the prime minister to
confront him about the report. The prime minister
tells him that he rushed the nuclear power plant
bill to revive the national economy and insists
to not waste government resources to quarrel about
it. Park gets transferred to another place because
he blew the whistle about the plant situation.
The disaster starts when a 6.1 magnitude
earthquake shakes the town and damages the
power plant. Jae calls his family to make sure
they are okay. One of the valves is damaged
and needs immediate repair. Worried about the
plant, Park goes back to assess the situation
but the other chief engineer there underestimates
the situation. The engineers repair the valve
hastily but the pressure inside the pipe rapidly
increases, making the nuclear coolant pipe burst,
injuring the engineer, and leaking radiation.
Jae sees the engineers being carried away which
makes him remember what happened to his father and
brother. He wants to leave the plant immediately
but his friend refuses to follow him, he gives
up the idea and helps the other repair the plant.
Outside, the town is damaged by the earthquake
but all of the people survive with only minor
injuries. The prime minister tries to hide the
plant incident but President Kang finds out about
it and becomes furious. The prime minister
wants to cover up the accident and make the
evacuation operation as small as possible
to prevent national panic and mass chaos.
The prime minister's team convinces him that the
plant is equipped with control units and will
soon overcome the problem. President Kang
doesn’t have any other choice and agrees.
So they only notify nearby towns
and evacuate them silently.
Jae’s family and girlfriend get into a bus and
evacuate with the other people from their town.
In the control unit room, the engineer is
in panic. The nuclear containment internal
pressure keeps rising and will explode if they
can’t figure out the solution soon. They need to
vent out the air inside the containment but it
will leak radiation into the surrounding area.
The president decides to hold the venting
process and finish the evacuation process first.
Knowing about this, the workers inside
the plant panic and ditch their work.
One of the chief engineers seals the exit
and forces them to go back to their station.
The workers ignore him and try to
bypass the sealed door but fail.
Because of the situation, Park decides to
vent the nuclear reactor against the order.
But the system malfunctioned, forcing
the engineer to open the vent manually.
The plant is having a nuclear meltdown and
when the pressure hits the limit point,
all hell breaks loose. The nuclear plant explodes.
The explosion kills most of the workers
inside the plant, but Jae survives with
a minor injury and helps his wounded friend to
get outside. On the way outside, he meets Park
and tries to get out together. The rescue team
arrives at the plant but the situation is bad.
They can’t go near the plant because the radiation
level is too high. The prime minister insists
on covering the explosion, his team denies all
rumors about the plant explosion to the media.
At the shelter, people start questioning about
the situation, whether they need to go further
or not. Yeon goes back to the plant to see
the real situation. She is shocked after
seeing that the plant has already exploded but
relieved when she meets Jae outside the plant.
But instead of going with them, Jae decides to go
back inside to help the others despite the high
radiation level. Yeon and the others try to stop
him but he insists. Park also goes back inside and
tells the rescue team to go closer. They finally
decide to go closer to the plant and spray the
area with water to help bring down the radiation
level and pump coolant to the nuclear fuel road.
Jae's friend gets treated at the medical
tent with the rest of the victims.
The medical team decontaminates them with
water before treating them to minimize
the radiation poisoning. Despite their
effort, the situation doesn’t look good.
Yeon goes back to the shelter to
notify Jae’s family that he is okay,
but she lied about his whereabouts. She also
tells the real situation to the other people,
which makes them immediately pack things
up and go outside the shelter to move away
further. But the authorities lock them
inside and jam the area phone signal.
Preventing them to share the real
situation with the rest of the nation.
Jae keeps helping trapped workers until nightfall.
He accidentally gets splashed by radiated water
while helping inside. His body can’t keep
up with the radiation and he collapses. He
immediately rushed to the medical tent to receive
treatment. The rescue team has run out of water,
so they retreat to get some more. Park wonders why
they don’t use the seawater. He finds out that the
head office has forbidden them to use seawater to
prevent the decommissioning of the power plant.
This makes him angry because the higher
politician still thinks about the plant's
functionality despite the situation. The
radiation level is starting to take a toll to
the rescue team’s health. They are now exhausted
and starting to show radiation poisoning symptoms.
The International Atomic Energy Agency finds
out about the accident and alerts the other
international agencies about it. Foreign
countries are starting to evacuate their
citizens from Korea. The media started to cover
the explosion incident resulting in national
panic and mass chaos. The whole nation starts
to panic and moves away from the explosion area.
Yeon notices that the authorities
guarding them have abandoned the shelter.
Together they bust down the locked gate and get
on the bus. A high amount of radiation has leaked
outside of the plant. So they need to move further
away. The medical team at the medical tent also
starts abandoning the victims. Only a few brave
ones stay there to keep treating the victims.
Jae wakes up and immediately tries to
find his phone. He calls Yeon to tell
her to bring his family as far as possible
and promises that he will follow them soon.
The road is way too jammed, making Yeon
doesn’t have any other choice than to drive
on the opposite lane. But eventually, they
face another road jam, forcing them to walk.
Park is frustrated by the situation when
suddenly he gets a call from the president.
They start to communicate and
discuss the situation directly.
President Kang takes over the control and
declares a state of emergency. He decides to
decommission the plant and start to use seawater
to spray the site. Furthermore, he orders the
shutdown of all remaining nuclear power plants
in Korea until the situation has been assessed.
The rescue team starts to flood the nuclear core
with seawater, making the radiation level drop.
They have one more problem. The coolant
level at the fuel rod tank is dropping.
The earthquake cracked the floor, making the
coolant leak underneath. If the fuel road is
in contact with the air, it will cause a bigger
explosion and more radiation will leak outside.
They must seal the crack but the room
underneath is full of radiated water.
Making it a suicide mission for
anyone trying to seal the crack.
The president shows up on the TV to
announce the situation to the whole nation.
He also begging for anyone who is willing
to help them with the suicide mission.
Jae’s friend sees it and proposes to his
coworkers to volunteer for the mission.
At first, they oppose the idea, but
because of the radiation poisoning,
they don’t have much longer to live anyway. So
they decide to do it for the sake of their family.
Jae-hyok calls Yeon to tell her about their
plan. She makes him promise to her to get
out alive no matter what happens. But again,
she lies to his family about his whereabouts.
The team is getting ready for the
mission. It will be led by Park.
They are provided with painkillers to
ease their pain as the room is full of
radiated water. They only have 5 to 10
minutes each before their body gives up.
On the way, they see their destroyed town
and reminisce about their past life there.
Once they are inside the plant, they gather up
at the room entrance. They split the team into
several smaller teams and go inside in shifts
of 5 to 10 minutes. Once they can’t endure the
radiation, the next team will continue the sealing
process. But unexpectedly, the crack grows bigger
and is about to burst. Their plan has failed. They
are about to leave the plan when Jae proposes a
radical idea. They don’t have to seal the crack,
instead, they need to block the entrance and break
the ceiling so the fuel road will fall down
and the room will become another tank itself.
They start to execute the new plan, but it
has one flaw. One of them must sacrifice
themselves and detonate the bomb inside
after they finish sealing up the entrance.
Jae is the only candidate as he is the only
one who has the skill to handle explosives.
He agrees to sacrifice himself and goes into the
room. As he waits until the sealing is done, the
radiation is taking a toll on his body. He takes
the whole bottle of the painkiller. He wants to
call Yeon but his phone gets no service. He tells
Park to ask the president to broadcast him to the
TV so he can say goodbye to his family. Yeon gets
the news that Jae is on the TV so they go inside
a nearby bus and watch him from there. He says
his final goodbye to his family and apologizes
to Yeon because he can’t keep his promise.
After the sealing is done, the remaining team
goes outside and Yae-hyeok detonates the bomb. His
sacrifice is not in vain as his plan is working.
On the following days, the remaining team
dies one by one from radiation poisoning.
President Kang declares them as national heroes.
In the end, the nuclear power they once relied
on has brought disaster upon them. They only
think that nuclear power plants are convenient
for people’s lives and the nation's economy, but
they forget about the risk hiding underneath.
Make sure to subscribe and turn on notifications
so you can watch more videos like this.
Thanks for watching, and see you, next time.